Break a monolith with Refactor Spaces and AWS Copilot tutorial (#879)
build-on-aws/content: tutorials/refactor-spaces-copilot-cli/index.md

> ---

Reviewer: Hello!!

This is a nicely packaged blog. It has dense information but the structure makes it easy to follow the modules and steps.

My edits focus primarily on correcting titles to AP Style and grammatical errors. I made editorial suggestions where you can improve the narrative structure--such as the intro--and from the requirements based on the Community.AWS Editorial Review Process. Please see my notes below. 

Overall, well done! 👏🏼

> title: "Break a Monolithic Application into Microservices with AWS Migration Hub Refactor Spaces, AWS Copilot"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Break a Monolithic Application Into Microservices With AWS Migration Hub Refactor Spaces, AWS Copilot"
```

> description: "In this tutorial I will walk you through the process of decomposing a monolith to microservices using the strangler fig pattern using Refactor Spaces and AWS Copilot. These AWS services will do a lot of undifferentiated heavy lifting while allowing you to focus on what matters, Innovation."

Reviewer: The descriptors need to be 60 characters or fewer. It can't repeat the messaging on the title or use the same words. It should also focus on what solution the reader gets from reading the piece.

```suggestion
description: "Using AWS for decomposing allows you to focus on innovation."
```

> description: "In this tutorial I will walk you through the process of decomposing a monolith to microservices using the strangler fig pattern using Refactor Spaces and AWS Copilot. These AWS services will do a lot of undifferentiated heavy lifting while allowing you to focus on what matters, Innovation."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider merging this paragraph with the intro section. See notes below for more information. 

Also, there's no need to write "services" after AWS because the S stands for services. 

description: "In this tutorial I will walk you through the process of decomposing a monolith to microservices using the strangler fig pattern using Refactor Spaces and AWS Copilot. These AWS will do a lot of undifferentiated heavy lifting while allowing you to focus on what matters, Innovation."
```

> tags:

Reviewer: We can only use 5 tags. Please choose the best ones.

Author: is that including the tutorials and AWS tags?

#### Flexibility

The flexibility of Docker containers is based on their portability, ease of deployment, and small size. This is different from the installation and configuration required on a VM. For instance, packaging services inside of containers helps moving them between hosts. This in turn isolates them from failure of adjacent services, and protects them from errant patches or software upgrades to the host system

### Application overview

![Diagram showing the flow from User/client to the Monolith. The User accesses the monolith via the ELB. The monolith is running on ECS in a Fargate.](images/monolithoverview.jpg)

1. **Client** The client makes a request over port 443 to the refactor proxy URL.

2. **Elastic Load Balancer (ELB)** AWS Copilot creates an ELB and registers the monolith to the target group.

3. **Containerized Node.js Monolith** The Node.js cluster parent is responsible for distributing traffic to the workers within the monolithic application. This architecture is containerized, but still monolithic because each container has all the same features of the rest of the containers.

### What is Amazon ECS?

> Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) is a fully managed container orchestration service that simplifies your deployment, management, and scaling of containerized applications. Amazon ECS will launch, monitor, and scale your application across flexible compute options with automatic integrations to other supporting AWS services that your application needs. Amazon ECS supports Docker containers. With API calls, you can launch and stop Docker-enabled applications, query the complete state of your cluster, and access many familiar features. These include security groups, Elastic Load Balancing, EBS volumes, and AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) roles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) is a fully managed container orchestration service that simplifies your deployment, management, and scaling of containerized applications. Amazon ECS will launch, monitor, and scale your application across flexible compute options with automatic integrations to other supporting AWS that your application needs. Amazon ECS supports Docker containers. With API calls, you can launch and stop Docker-enabled applications, query the complete state of your cluster, and access many familiar features. These include security groups, Elastic Load Balancing, EBS volumes, and AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) roles.
```

Navigate to the [Refactor Spaces console](https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/migrationhub/refactor-spaces/home) and open the environment rs-tutorial-env and open the rs-tutorial-app. You should see the four services and their corresponding routes.

![AWS Console screenshot of the Refactor Spaces environment. Shows the Refactor Spaces application that acts as a proxy. Also, shows the services registered during the process of incremental refactoring.](images/rsconsole.webp)

Copy the ProxyURL and paste in a new browser tab. Append /users or /threads or /posts to view the output. NOTE: DNS updates take some time and you may see a not found or internal server error. In this case, wait and refresh until you see it completed.

![JSON output of the application after it is refactored.](images/outputafterrefactoring.png)

## Module Six: Clean Up

### Overview Module Six

It is a best practice to delete resources when the tutorial is completed to avoid ongoing charges for running services. However, this step is optional. You can also keep the resources and services deployed for a detailed examination of the infrastructure, or as template for future deployments.

> ### What you will accomplish Module Six

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What You Will Accomplish in Module Six
```

In this module, you will terminate the resources you created during this tutorial. You will stop the services running on Amazon ECS. You will delete the Application Load Balancer. You will also delete the AWS CloudFormation stack to terminate the Amazon ECS cluster, including all the underlying EC2 instances.

**Module Details**

- ⏱ Time to complete: 20 minutes

**Services used**

- [AWS Copilot](https://aws.amazon.com/containers/copilot/?sc_channel=el&sc_campaign=appswave&sc_content=refactor-spaces-copilot-cli&sc_geo=mult&sc_country=mult&sc_outcome=acq)
- [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/?sc_channel=el&sc_campaign=appswave&sc_content=refactor-spaces-copilot-cli&sc_geo=mult&sc_country=mult&sc_outcome=acq)

> #### **Step 1**: Delete the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### **Step 1**: Delete the Application
```

> You can delete all services and infrastructure by entering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can delete all services and infrastructure by entering:
```

```bash
copilot app delete --name api
```

#### **Step 2**: Delete Refactor Spaces

You can delete the Refactor Spaces environment and services by deleting the CloudFormation stacks created in previous modules. First delete the services stack and then delete the environment stack by passing the `<<stackname>>` to the following command.

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name <<stackname>>
```

## Conclusion

> Congratulations! You have completed the Break a Monolithic Application into Microservices tutorial. You learned how to run a monolithic application in a Docker container. You deployed the same application as microservices, and then switched the traffic to the microservices without incurring downtime.

Reviewer: Keep it simple in case of title change. 

```suggestion
Congratulations! You have completed the tutorial. You learned how to run a monolithic application in a Docker container. You deployed the same application as microservices, and then switched the traffic to the microservices without incurring downtime.
```

> ### Learn more

Reviewer: The blogs usually end at the conclusion and you have these fantastic suggestions for the reader. Consider deleting the titles, for "learn more, get help, and dive deeper" since the call to action is the same: to keep reading. These can all go under the conclusion section.

Author: Updated to add a statement at the end of the conclusion paragraph to refer to links below. Otherwise it feels incomplete
